ClimateDT Evaluation Charts
===========================

The ClimateDT Evaluation Charts is a web-based platform for exploring scientific evaluation outputs from high-resolution `Climate Change Adaptation Digital Twin (Climate DT) <https://destine.ecmwf.int/climate-change-adaptation-digital-twin-climate-dt/>`_ simulations.

About the Climate DT
---------------------

The Climate DT is one of two high-priority digital twins developed under `Destination Earth <https://destine.ecmwf.int/digital-twins/>`_. It creates an operational framework for producing global multi-decadal climate projections (until 2050), leveraging the EuroHPC supercomputing facilities along with leading European climate models.

The Climate DT provides km-scale simulations of climate scenarios from global to regional and national levels at multi-decadal timescales, including uncertainty quantification. Three global storm-resolving and eddy-rich models are used: **ICON**, **IFS-NEMO**, and **IFS-FESOM**, run at resolutions ranging between 5 and 10 km for the different Earth-system components (atmosphere, land, ocean and sea ice).

The Climate DT is implemented by a partnership led by CSC, involving leading climate institutions, supercomputing centres, national meteorological services, academia and industrial partners, through a contract procured by ECMWF.

What This Service Shows
--------------------------

The ClimateDT Evaluation Charts presents scientific evaluation results from Climate DT simulations. To use the service, select one or more experiments from the sidebar and use the category filters to show or hide diagnostic types (e.g. Gregory Plots, Bias Maps, Time Series).

The service currently includes:

- **AQUA diagnostics** — quality assessment figures generated by the AQUA framework, comparing Climate DT simulations against observations and reanalysis products

Additional evaluation sources are planned (e.g. OBSALL).

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents

   aqua
   data_access

Acknowledgments
---------------

The development of Climate DT, the AQUA framework, and Climate DT Evaluation Charts has been funded by the European Union through Contract DE_340_CSC - Destination Earth Programme Climate Adaptation Digital Twin (Climate DT).
